---
title: "An Approach to Quantum Channel State Estimation Based on Machine Learning Models, MMCP 2024"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-10-qber-mmcp
venue: "MMCP 2024"
date: 2024-10-22
location: "Yerevan, Armenia"
---

[More information here](https://indico.jinr.ru/event/4467/contributions/28880/)

## Abstract

Quantum key distribution (QKD) systems require a post-processing procedure to form a common key, with error correction (EC) being one of the most computationally com- plex and time-consuming stage. For EC using low-density parity check codes, one of the parameter selection approaches relies on a priori quantum bit error rate (QBER) estimation. Existing algorithm utilizes physical equations and statistics for error rate estimation, which can be unstable and sensitive to distribution outliers.

Precision of the estimation is crucial for optimal code rate choice. We thus propose a novel approach to predict the QBER using machine learning and time series forecasting. We develop several machine learning algorithms for time series forecasting, including deep learning and gradient boosting with autoregressive components, along with a Python module for training and evaluation on real data samples. The objective of the study is to integrate the models into QKD systems using microservices for online forecasting and investigate whether these methods outperform classical approaches in experiments on real transmitters.

Our study demonstrates that the proposed forecasting techniques improve the quantum key correction speed in a series of experiments. The result of this study helps advance the research in quantum cryptography, increasing quantum key generation speed in high-performance QKD systems.
